GAO For Release on Delivery Expected at 10 a.m. EST Thursday February 4, 1999
United States General Accounting Office Testimony Before the Committee on Energy
and Natural Resources, U.S. Senate RECREATION FEES Demonstration Program
Successful in Raising Revenues but Could Be Improved Statement of Barry T. Hill,
Associate Director, Energy, Resources, and Science Issues, Resources, Community,
and Economic Development Division We are pleased to be here to summarize the
results of our recent review of the recreational fee demonstration program. The
testimony we are providing today is based on a report we prepared for this
Committee and others last November. 1 The report's overall message is clearly
positive: The program has provided hundreds of millions of dollars to improve
visitor services and address backlogs of unmet needs. In addition, those who pay
the fees are generally supportive of the program, and it has not adversely
affected visitation rates. Nonetheless, it is appropriate to focus today on
several areas in which changes or improvements may be needed. These issues are
important because the demonstration program is still at a stage where
experimentation is encouraged. Most of our observations relate to doing just
that-more experimentation to determine what works best. The four issues I will
focus on today involve the following: (1) ensuring that future revenues can be
applied to the agencies' highest priority unmet needs, (2) coordinating fees
between agencies at demonstration sites that are close to each other, (3) being
more innovative in setting fees, and (4) assessing the effect of fees on
specific segments of the population. Before discussing each issue in turn, I
will provide some general information from our report about the program's
implementation. Program Has Generated Considerable Revenue The demonstration
program gives opportunities to collect new and increased fees to the major
agencies that provide the public with recreational opportunities on federal
land-the Park Service, Bureau of Land Management, and Fish and Wildlife Service
(all within the Department of the Interior), and the Forest Service (within the
Department of Agriculture). Each agency can experiment with new or increased
fees at up to 100 sites. By September 1998, such fees were in place at 312
sites-100 administered by the Park Service, 77 by the Fish and Wildlife Service,
68 by the Bureau of Land Management, and 67 by the Forest Service. The four
agencies reported that, because of the program, their combined recreational fee
revenues have nearly doubled, from about $93 million in fiscal year 1996 (the
last year before the demonstration program was implemented) to about $180
million in fiscal year 1998. The Park Service 1Recreation Fees: Demonstration
Fee Program Successful in Raising Revenues but Could Be Improved (GAO/RCED-99-7,
Nov. 20, 1998). Permitting Greater Flexibility in Allocating Revenues collected
80 percent of the fee revenue, the Forest Service 15 percent, the Bureau of Land
Management 3 percent, and the Fish and Wildlife Service about 2 percent. Putting
the money to work took some time. Our report, as well as more recent data
provided by the agencies, shows that about two-thirds of the fee revenues still
remain to be spent as of September 1998. This occurred for a variety of reasons,
including the time the agencies spent developing financial systems and internal
processes for managing and controlling collections and expenditures. At the time
of our review, most expenditures had been used on either repairs and maintenance
or on setting up fee collection activities at the sites. Each of the agencies
expects to make significant expenditures in fiscal year 1999. At the sites we
visited, expenditures appeared to be consistent with the purposes authorized in
the law. (App. I lists the demonstration sites we visited, by agency.) Now, I
would like to discuss several issues where we think improvements can be made to
the demonstration program. The demonstration program required the agencies to
spend at least 80 percent of the fee revenues at the site where these revenues
were generated. Some demonstration sites are generating SO much revenue as to
raise questions about their long-term ability to spend these revenues on high-
priority items. By contrast, sites outside the demonstration program, as well as
demonstration sites that do not collect much in fee revenues, may have high-
priority needs that remain unmet. As a result, some of the agencies' highest-
priority needs may not be addressed. For many sites in the demonstration
program-particularly in the Park Service-the increased fee revenues equal 20
percent or more of the sites' annual operating budgets. This extensive new
revenue allows such sites to address past unmet needs in maintenance, resource
protection, and visitor services. The Park Service has set a priority on using
fee revenues to address its repair and maintenance backlog. Some sites with high
fee revenues may be able to address these needs within a few years. However, the
80-percent requirement will preclude the agencies from using fee revenues for
more pressing needs at other sites. Two of the sites we visited-Zion and
Shenandoah National Parks-are examples of how this issue may surface in the near
future. At Zion, park officials told us that the park expected to receive SO
much new fee revenue in fiscal year 1998 (about $4.5 million) that the park's
operating budget would double. The park's current plans call for using this
additional money to begin a $20 million alternative transportation system.
However, park officials said that if for some reason this particular project did
not move forward, they might have difficulty preparing and implementing enough
projects to use the available funds in a manner consistent with the program's
objectives. At Shenandoah, fee revenues for fiscal year 1998 were expected to be
about $2.9 million-enough money, the park superintendent said, to eliminate the
park's estimated $15 million repair and maintenance backlog in a few years. The
Park Service and the Department of the Interior recognize that certain sites may
be able to quickly fix all of the problems that meet the demonstration program's
criteria. The Assistant Secretary of the Interior for Policy, Management, and
Budget has testified that setting aside some of the fee revenues for broader
agency priorities is important and has cautioned that permanent legislation
giving collecting sites a high percentage of the revenues could "create
undesirable inequities" within an agency. We found support for this view among
some managers at higher-revenue sites we visited, who supported more flexibility
in splitting revenues between sites. Our reviews at individual sites indicate
that this is a significant and sensitive issue that involves balancing the most
efficient use of the fee revenues against the need to maintain incentives to
collect fees at local sites. Our report stated that as the Congress decides on
the future of the fee demonstration program, it may wish to consider modifying
the current requirement. Providing some further flexibility in the spending of
fee revenues would give agencies more opportunities to address their highest-
priority needs among all of their field units. At the same time, however, any
change in the requirement would need to be done in such a way that (1) fee-
collecting sites would continue to have an incentive to collect fees and (2)
visitors who pay the fees will continue to support the program. Visitor surveys
show that putting fees to work where they are collected is a popular idea. The
demonstration program was authorized with the expectation that the Improving
four agencies would coordinate their fee collection efforts, both among
Interagency themselves and with state and local agencies, where it made sense to
do Coordination SO. During our review, we did find examples of such
coordination, with demonstrated benefits for the public. In Utah, for example,
where the Park Service's Timpanogos Cave National Monument is surrounded by a
recreation area in the Forest Service's Uinta National Forest, the two agencies
decided to charge a single entrance fee for both. Such coordination can reduce
agencies' operating costs, strengthen resource management activities, and
provide more agency personnel to assist visitors. We also found, however, that
agencies were not taking full advantage of this flexibility. For example, the
Park Service and the Fish and Wildlife Service manage sites with a common border
on the same island in Maryland and Virginia. The two sites are Assateague Island
National Seashore and Chincoteague National Wildlife Refuge. Administratively,
the two agencies cooperate on law enforcement matters and run a joint permit
program for off-road vehicles, and the Park Service provides staff to operate
and maintain a ranger station and bathing facilities on refuge land. However,
when the agencies selected the two sites for the demonstration program, they
decided to charge separate, nonreciprocal $5 per vehicle entrance fees.
Officials at the refuge told us that visitors are sometimes confused by this
lack of reciprocity. Our report discusses other cases in which greater
coordination among the agencies would either improve the service to the public
or permit greater efficiency in implementing a fee program. These cases included
(1) backcountry fees in Olympic National Park and Olympic National Forest in
Washington State, and (2) a proposed fee at Park Service and BLM lands located
in the El Malpais area of New Mexico. Demonstration sites may be reluctant to
coordinate on fees partly because the program's incentives are geared towards
increasing their revenues.
이에 비해, 공동 요금부과 제도가 특정 장소에 대한 수익을 잠재적으로 감소시킬 수도 있기 때문에, 이들 장소 간에는 조정을 꺼리는 경향이 있을
수도 있습니다. 그러나, 아새떼기(Assateague)와 체인코티그(Chincoteague) 같은 장소에서는, 대중에 대한 서비스의 증가가
수익의 작은 감소분을 상쇄할 수 있을 정도입니다. 그렇기 때문에, 우리 보고서는 기관들이 보다 큰 조정을 할 수 있는 기회를 파악하기 위해 시범
장소에 대한 현장별 검토(site-by-site)를 수행할 것을 권고하고 있습니다. 우리의 보고서에 대해 의견을 표하면서, 기관들은 대체로 이
분야에서 더 많은 일을 할 수 있다는 데 동의하였습니다. 또한, 현재 이들 기관 내에 더 많고 더 나은 조정 기회를 추구하기 위해 활동하게끔 돼
있는 공식적인 메커니즘이나 기관이 없습니다. 그 결과, 우리의 검토에서는 기관들 간의 조정이 드물게 발생하고 있는 것으로 나타났습니다. 더욱이,
엘 말페인즈(El Malpais)에서 우리가 발견한 바와 같이, 잠재적인 조정 기회에 관해 장소 간에 분쟁이 발생하는 경우, 기관 또는 부서
차원의 어떤 한 사람 또는 그룹이 관여하지 않기 때문에 이들 문제는 해결되지 않은 채 남아 있게 됩니다. 우리의 견해로는, 보다 나은 조정
기회를 추구하기 위한 이런 한 사람 또는 그룹이 없으면, 요금부과 장소들 간의 이런 조정 부족은 계속될 가능성이 있습니다. 보다 큰 혁신은
요금을 더 형평성 있게 만들 것 시범 프로그램은 또한 4개 기관들로 하여금 그들 자신의 요금을 설정하고 징수하는 데 있어서 혁신적이 되라고
권장하였습니다. 이런 개선은 두 가지 주요 형태를 취하고 있는데, 그것은 방문자들이 가능한 한 편리하게 요금을 지불하도록 하는 것과, 요금을 더
형평성 있게 만드는 것입니다. 우리는 자동 입출금기기(automated teller machine)와 같은 기계를 사용하여 입장권을 판매하는
것을 비롯하여, 인터넷을 통해 하이킹 허가를 판매하는 것, 주유소, 식료품점, 그리고 편의점 같은 판매자를 통해 입장권 또는 사용자 허가를
판매하는 것 등, 기관들이 지불을 더 편리하게 하려는 방법을 실험하는 많은 예를 발견하였습니다. 그러나 우리는 기관들이 (1) 사용의 정도,
또는 (2) 방문이 절정기 방문 시간 중에 발생했는지 여부에 의거하여 요금을 부과하는 등, 요금을 더 형평성 있게 만들 수 있는 다양한
가격구조를 실험하는 예는 더 적게 발견하였습니다. 가격 책정과 관련한 실험들은 대부분 산림청(Forest Service)이나
연방광물관리국(Bureau of Land Management)에 의해 수행되었습니다. 이 2개 기관은 (1) 방문객이 얼마나 오래 체류할
것인지, 또는 (2) 방문이 절정기(주말과 같은) 또는 비절정기(주중이나 비수기와 같은) 중에 발생하는지 여부에 근거하여 달라지는 요금을
설정하는 것을 실험해 왔습니다. 예를 들어, 3일 동안 레크리에이션 지역을 방문하는 경우 차량당 3달러가 부과되는 반면, 2주일 동안 방문하는
경우에는 차량당 10달러가 부과될 수도 있습니다. 이런 가격 책정은, 해당 지역을 보다 긴 시간 사용하는 방문객들은 더 높은 요금을 지불한다는
점에서, 방문객들에게 보다 큰 형평성을 가져다 주었습니다. 이는 다른 기관들에서도 보다 광범위한 적용 가능성을 가질 것으로 보입니다. 이에
비해, 공원 관리청은 다른 가격 구조에 대해 실험하는 데 거의 노력하지 않았습니다. 방문객들은 대체로 절정기(여름철 주말과 같은)에 방문하는지와
비절정기(겨울철 주중과 같은)에 방문하는지, 또는 몇 시간 동안 체류하는지 몇일 동안 체류하는지 여부에 상관없이 동일한 요금 지불합니다. 보다
혁신적인 요금제도는 방문객들에게 요금을 더 형평성 있게 부과하고, 경제적 효율을 제고하고 공원의 자원에 대한 과밀과 그 영향을 줄이기 위해 방문
패턴을 다소 변화시킬 수도 있습니다. 또한, 4개 기관들에 따르면, 절정기 기간 중의 방문을 줄이면 (1) 장소 운영 시 필요한 직원 수,
(2) 시설의 크기, (3) 유지보수 및 장래의 자본투자 필요, 그리고 (4) 장소 자원에 대한 훼손 정도 등을 줄여 레크리에이션 장소 운영비를
낮출 수 있다고 합니다. 그 것이 프로그램의 목표 중 하나였던 것임과 아울러, 대중에게 보다 형평성 있는 요금을 부과하는 결과를 초래할 수도
있기 때문에, 우리 보고서는 두 기관-공원 관리청과 어류 및 야생동물 관리청(Fish and Wildlife Service)-이 새 요금과 기존
요금에 대해 실험하고 혁신할 수 있는 추가적인 기회를 찾도록 권고하고 있습니다. 방문은 대체로 영향을 받지 않고 있는 것으로 보이나, 추가적인
연구가 필요 방문은 새 요금과 인상된 요금에 별다른 영향을 받지 않고 있는 것으로 4개 기관들이 수행한 조사에서 나타났습니다. 1997
회계연도에도 시범 장소의 방문은 다른 장소들의 4%에 비해 전반적으로 5% 증가하였습니다. 장소에 따라 그 영향은 다소 달랐습니다. 1997
회계연도의 시범 프로그램에 참여한 206개 장소 중 58%는 방문이 증가하였고, 41%는 감소하였으며, 1%는 변화가 없었습니다. 그러나
1년간의 자료만을 가지고는, 대체로 대부분의 장소에서 방문에 부정적인 영향이 없었다는 점이나, 방문이 줄어든 장소에서 요금이 영향을 미쳤는지
여부 등에 대해 확정적인 결론을 내리기는 어렵습니다. 기관들의 조사에서는 또한, 방문객들이 대체로 이 프로그램과 부과된 입장 또는 사용자 요금의
액수를 지지한다는 것을 발견하였습니다. 예를 들어, 11개 시범 장소에서의 공원 관리청의 조사에서는 피조사자의 83%가 자신들이 지불한 요금에
만족했거나 그 요금이 너무 낮다고 생각한다는 것을 발견하였습니다. 앞에서 언급한 바와 같이, 조사 결과는, 방문객들이 특히 자신들이 요금을
지불한 장소에서 그 요금이 유지되어, 그곳의 필요를 충당하도록 사용될 수 있게끔 되기를 지지한다는 것을 나타내고 있습니다. 이런 긍정적인
결과에도 불구하고, 일부 이익단체들과 레크리에이션 요금 전문가들은 조사 자료에서 공백이 있다고 지적하였습니다. 예를 들어, 조사는 사용자들에
관한 일반적인 정보를 제공하기는 하지만, 오지인 사용자와 저소득층 사용자 등 특정 그룹에 대한 요금의 영향을 다룰 수 없을 수도 있습니다. 이런
조사 노력은 또한, 요금이 부과되기 때문에 입장을 하지 않기로 결정했을 수도 있는 잠재적 방문자에 대한 정보를 제공하지 못할 수도 있습니다.
4개 기관 모두 방문객에 대한 추가적인 조사를 계획하고 있습니다. 4개 기관이 장소를 추가하고 새로운 유형의 요금 또는 그것을 징수하기 위한
수단을 시도함으로써 시범 프로그램을 계속 진행함에 따라, 장소 방문자의 지지를 계속 평가하고, 그들의 방문자 조사에서 지적된 공백을 해소하는
방법을 고려하는 것이 중요합니다. 끝으로 위원장님, 오늘 우리의 증언은 요금 시범 프로그램에 대해 이루어질 수 있는 개선에 초점을 맞추고
있으나, 이 프로그램이 잘 작동하고 있고 법에서 의도했던 많은 목적들을 충족시키고 있는 것으로 보인다는 사실을 기억하는 것이 중요합니다. 이
시범은 방문 패턴에는 거의 또는 전혀 영향을 미치지 않으면서 전국의 레크리에이션 지역에 수백만 달러의 추가 자금을 가져다 주었습니다. 이
프로그램은 기관들-특히 공원 관리청-이 과거에 충족시키지 못한 수리 및 유지보수 필요성을 해결하고, 일부 경우에는 그 필요를 충족시키는 기회를
창출하였습니다. 이 시범 프로그램에는 이제 2년 이상이 남아 있습니다. 이러한 2년은 기관들이 그들의 프로그램을 조정하고, 요금을 혁신하고,
방문객들의 반응을 이해하기 위해 더 많은 노력을 기울임으로써 프로그램의 목표를 더욱 발전시킬 수 있는 기회를 나타내고 있습니다. 이로써 나의
진술을 마치고자 합니다. 위원장의 다른 위원님들께서 질문이 있으면 기꺼이 답변하고자 합니다. 부록 I GAO가 방문했던 요금 시범 장소, 기관별
기관/장소 위치 공원 관리청 아새떼기섬 국립해안공원(Assateague Island National Seashore) 메릴랜드 칼스배드
동굴국립공원(Carlsbad Caverns National Park) 뉴멕시코 프레드릭 더글러스 국립사적지(Frederick Douglass
National Historic Site) 워싱턴 디씨 올림픽국립공원(Olympic National Park) 워싱턴주
셰넌도아국립공원(Shenandoah National Park) 버지니아 팀파노고스 동굴국립기념지(Timpanogos Cave National
Monument) 유타 자이온국립공원(Zion National Park) 유타 어류 및 야생동물 관리청 보스케 델 어파기
국립야생동물보호구(Bosque del Apache National Wildlife Refuge) 뉴멕시코
체인코티그국립야생동물보호구(Chincoteague National Wildlife Refuge) 버지니아
니스퀼리국립야생동물보호구(Nisqually National Wildlife Refuge) 워싱턴 주 산림청 아메리칸 포크캐니언-알파인 루프
레크리에이션 지역(American Fork Canyon-Alpine Loop Recreation Area), 유타 국립삼림(Uinta
National Forest) 유타 세인트 헬렌스산 국립화산기념지(Mount St. Helens National Volcanic
Monument), 기포드 핀초트 국립삼림(Gifford Pinchot National Forest) 워싱턴주 루스벨트 호수, 솔트 및 베르데
강 레크리에이션 복합지역(Roosevelt Lake, Salt and Verde Rivers Recreation Complex), 톤토
국립삼림(Tonto National Forest) 애리조나 BLM 레드락캐니언 국립보존지역(Red Rock Canyon National
Conservation Area) 네바다 야쿠나 헤드 우수자연경관지역(Yaquina Head Outstanding Natural Area)
오리건주